MSC4312: Resetting cross-signing keys in the OAuth world (#4312)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4312-x-signing-reset-with-nextgen-auth.md

Author: Server: https://github.com/element-hq/synapse/commit/53a3783750789d2627ff6e57857f07216bef9449
Supporting client: https://github.com/element-hq/matrix-react-sdk/pull/34

I'm not sure how an unsupporting client would be implemented. They'd simply use the UIA fallback mechanism without any changes needed?

Reviewer: I've added these details and a video of Element Classic iOS using the fallback to the PR description.

endpoints. This is not problematic in most cases because these endpoints cover actions that can now
be preformed in the authorization server's web UI. One notable exception, however, is
[`/_matrix/client/v3/keys/device_signing/upload`] which clients use to publish their cross-signing
keys. This endpoint requires UIA when previously uploaded keys are being replaced, for instance
because the user lost their recovery key. OAuth knows nothing about cross-signing keys and,
consequently, the spec labels this endpoint as unusable:

> **WARNING:** When this endpoint requires User-Interactive Authentication, it cannot be used when
> the access token was obtained via the OAuth 2.0 API.

This is obviously not practical and unofficial workarounds have been invented to enable resetting
one's cross-signing keys in the client / homeserver / authorization server triangle. This proposal
documents these workarounds as a low-effort interim workaround until better solutions are available.

## Proposal

Clients that have authenticated via the new [OAuth APIs] continue to use
[`/_matrix/client/v3/keys/device_signing/upload`] to replace cross-signing keys. Homeservers

> continue to enforce UIA on the endpoint but MUST only use a single stage `m.oauth` together with a

Reviewer 2: I'm still a bit confused with this proposal, specifically Travis's change, which is all well and logical, but means this MSC is no longer documenting the status quo which is what it claims to be doing, so anyone implementing what is says is not going to get a working client/server, which seems to defeat the point of speccing it.

Less importantly, the fact that this said "documenting the current workaround" and then using a MUST felt incongruent to me and I think it probably just needs to be rephrased that the server offers a flow where the only stage is `m.oauth` (or whatever it ends up as): as this makes it sound like the server must offer one flow and only one flow.

Reviewer 3: > I think Travis' renaming from `m.cross_signing_reset` to `m.oauth` hasn't really changed this aspect. The implementations in Synapse, MAS, etc. are using `org.matrix.cross_signing_reset` which differs from both. If compatibility with that choice is our goal, we'll need to fix the stage name to `org.matrix.cross_signing_reset`.

Agreed, on all fronts.

I like the idea of switching away from the unstable prefix (and, if we're going to do that, it may as well be to `m.oauth`), but we may need to consider the mechanics of doing so. I think probably servers will need to offer *two* flows (one with each of `m.oauth` and `org.matrix.cross_signing_reset`), so that clients which only support the latter will use it.

with the existing [User-Interactive Authentication (UIA)] mechanism that is used on a number of
endpoints. This is not problematic in most cases because these endpoints cover actions that can now
be preformed in the authorization server's web UI. One notable exception, however, is
[`/_matrix/client/v3/keys/device_signing/upload`] which clients use to publish their cross-signing
keys. This endpoint requires UIA when previously uploaded keys are being replaced, for instance
because the user lost their recovery key. OAuth knows nothing about cross-signing keys and,
consequently, the spec labels this endpoint as unusable:

> **WARNING:** When this endpoint requires User-Interactive Authentication, it cannot be used when
> the access token was obtained via the OAuth 2.0 API.

This is obviously not practical and unofficial workarounds have been invented to enable resetting
one's cross-signing keys in the client / homeserver / authorization server triangle. This proposal
documents these workarounds.

## Proposal

Clients that have authenticated via the new [OAuth APIs] continue to use
[`/_matrix/client/v3/keys/device_signing/upload`] to replace cross-signing keys. Homeservers

> continue to enforce UIA on the endpoint but MUST only use a single stage `m.cross_signing_reset`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
continue to enforce UIA on the endpoint but MUST only use a single stage `m.oauth`
```

because we'll probably have other endpoints which need a UIA shim too in future (assuming we don't remove the shim/legacy auth before we add those endpoints).

Reviewer 4: This is non-blocking for FCP.

    }
  }
}
```

The client then instructs the user to approve the reset of their cross-signing keys using the
provided URL. How exactly that approval is achieved is an implementation detail between the
authorization server and the homeserver[^1]. The required end result is that after approving, the
client can complete the stage without further parameters.

``` json5
{
  "auth": {
    "session": "$FROM_ABOVE"
  },
  "master_key": ...
  ...
}
```

To facilitate the navigation, a new action `org.matrix.cross_signing_reset` is introduced and MAY be
used in the `account_management_actions_supported` authorization server metadata field from
[MSC4191]. Servers SHOULD use this action to deep link the user if the authorization server supports
it.

## Potential issues

Semantically, resetting cross-signing keys doesn't fall into the authorization server's domain. The
scheme outlined above increases coupling between the authorization server and the homeserver and
makes it more difficult to use off-the-shelve OAuth authorization servers.

## Alternatives

Rather than approving cross-signing reset specifically, the authorization server could provide
mechanisms for temporary scope elevation.

> 

Reviewer 3: Given that this is already deployed on matrix.org (:cry:), and Element-Web implements support for it (cf https://github.com/element-hq/element-meta/issues/2956), I think we had better spec what we have asap and leave the Correct Solution for another time.

## Security considerations

Lifting UIA temporarily creates a time window in which an attacker with an access token could take

> over the account.

Author: Oh, you're right. This is what Synapse & MAS do. Since there is no other implementation it might still be worth calling out? Have clarified it in 3de64d76448565d1627706769398b10aa624093b.
